Work is a gift from God, and His inspired word tells us to be balanced in our view of work.
However, the world teaches extreme views of work that are contrary to God's view.
Some have the view that work should be avoided at all costs, and they work hard at not working.
Others have the view that the more you work, the happier you will be.
As you watch the following dramatization, notice how our brother's emphasis on secular work actually robs him of joy.
The company took on new clients this year, and I knew that Victor was really depending on me to keep things on schedule.
I didn't want to let him down.
So, I stepped up and took on the overtime hours. I figured it was temporary, and I even got to take home a bigger paycheck.
The problem is that's not all I took home.
By the end of each week, I was burned out.
And the weekends, well, they weren't really any better.
In fact, I spent a lot of Saturdays back at the office. The project took a lot longer than I thought.
That pretty much took out field service and the meetings. But I knew that management would be impressed.
That machine is essential so I can get these parts in.
I got the reports in right on time.
Look, this is costing a lot of money. I got a first quarter that I have to meet, and without this, is going to kill me.
You know, we had a contract that you were supposed to...
Like I said, I don't care about your third party event. This is unexpected.
I was working harder than ever. And in the end, I'm not sure anyone even cared.
We know that being industrious and working hard is good.
But what did our brother and the video experience when he adopted the world's extreme view of work?
Did it make him happier?
If we put secular work above everything else, we could lose out unneeded rest and spiritual pursuits.
Our brother in the video sacrificed precious time with his family and activity with the congregation
because he did not have a balanced view of secular work.
Read with me what Ecclesiastes, chapter 4 and verse 6 indicates about being balanced. Ecclesiastes 4.6
Better is a handful of rest than two handfuls of hard work.
Notice what it adds. And chasing after the wind.
Chasing after the wind is an exercise in futility.
You can't catch the wind and hold onto it.
A person who was a workaholic may never enjoy the fruitage of his labor
if his work consumes all his time and energy.
His work can become as pointless as chasing after the wind.
We accept to enjoy our obligation to provide for ourselves and those who depend on us.
But we also need to remember that there is more to life than work.
Jehovah gives us the instructions we need to have a balanced life and have a proper view of work.
For example, the Bible encourages us to work hard at what we do to make a living.
And meaningful secular work can bring us joy and feeling of accomplishment.
Whatever we do, we want to do it well.
Also, as Ephesians 4.28 says, doing good work allows us to have something to share with someone in need.
But we are advised in Scripture to make sure of the more important things.
And the most important work we can do is stated clearly in 1 Corinthians chapter 15, verse 58.
Please read with me 1 Corinthians 1558.
Therefore, my beloved brothers, be steadfast, immovable, always having plenty to do in the work of the Lord,
knowing that your labor is not in vain in connection with the Lord.
Having plenty to do in the work of the Lord is good for us, and it is pleasing to Jehovah.
As you watch the following dramatization, see how our brother benefits from working hard at his secular job and in spiritual pursuits.
It had been a busy week, but the weekend was going to be even busier and better.
But first, I needed to make an important stop.
Hey John, how are you feeling?
Ben, how are you doing?
Good, good.
This illness had been so hard on John and Sandy.
I couldn't even imagine what they were going through.
It was so encouraging to see John's positive attitude.
The next day, we had a fantastic conversation in the ministry.
Then, Tom and I finally figured out that glitch in the AV system.
Okay Tom, go ahead and hit play.
It's played.
Okay.
Everything looked and sounded great.
We definitely were busy, but in the best way possible.
Doing things that really mattered, and for people who love Jehovah.
We saw a balanced and joyful man in that video.
Our brother worked hard at his secular job because it allowed him to provide for his family's physical needs.
Did you notice in the video that the brother had a picture of his family at his workplace?
It was a nice reminder of one of the reasons why he was working hard.
True, it may be that you work at a job you don't particularly enjoy doing.
Nevertheless, you work hard and give it your best because you're doing it for your family and for Jehovah.
And when you do your job well, the truth is that you can find pleasure in it or at least in what it provides.
Doing the work of the Lord includes work that we do in behalf of the congregation.
We experience the greater happiness that comes from giving as stated at Acts 2035.
Did our brother in the video that we just observed give of himself to the congregation?
Yes, he did.
He took the time to visit a brother in the hospital, and we know that such visits are truly appreciated.
And he participated in the ministry to spread the good news of the kingdom.
He helped out at the kingdom hall to get the audio video set up working.
Like him, we make ourselves available for whatever has to be done to care for kingdom interests.
At the end of the day, our brother was with his family and friends probably very tired, but it was a good tired.
He was enjoying a period of relaxation and personal satisfaction.
Yes, all of his hard work brought him genuine happiness.
Truly, as Jehovah's servants, all of us want to be busy in the best ways possible.
Jehovah created us to enjoy both work and leisure as stated at Ecclesiastes 313.
That everyone should eat and drink and find enjoyment for all his hard work.
It is the gift of God.
Keep your life balanced, and you will enjoy all of the work you do even more.
Please listen, as Brother James Mans, a helper to the writing committee, now considers the final talk of this symposium.
What contributes to joy? True friendships.